CIK: 1140859
Company Name: AMERISOURCEBERGEN CORP
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2017-11-21
Accession Number: 0001140859-17-000047


ITEM 1 BUSINESS As used herein, the terms "Company," "AmerisourceBergen," "we," "us," or "our" refer to AmerisourceBergen Corporation, a Delaware corporation. AmerisourceBergen is 1 of the largest global pharmaceutical sourcing and distribution services companies, helping both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical and biotech manufacturers improve patient access to products and enhance patient care. We deliver innovative programs and services designed to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the pharmaceutical supply chain in both human and animal health. More specifically, we distribute a comprehensive offering of brand name, specialty brand name, and generic pharmaceuticals, over the counter healthcare products, home healthcare supplies and equipment, outsourced compounded sterile preparations, and related services to a wide variety of healthcare providers located in the United States and select global markets, including acute care hospitals and health systems, independent and chain retail pharmacies, mail order pharmacies, medical clinics, long term care and alternate site pharmacies, physician practices, medical and dialysis clinics, veterinarians, and other customers. Additionally, we furnish healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers with an assortment of related services, including data analytics, outcomes research, reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services, niche premium logistics services, inventory management, pharmacy automation, pharmacy management, and packaging solutions Industry Overview Pharmaceutical sales in the United States, as recently estimated by IQVIA (formerly known as QuintilesIMS), an independent third party provider of information to the pharmaceutical and healthcare industry, are expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate of approximately 4.4% from 2016 through 2021, and the growth rate is dependent, in part, on pharmaceutical manufacturer price increases. In addition to general economic conditions, factors that impact the growth of the pharmaceutical industry in the United States and other industry trends include Aging Population. The number of individuals age 65 and over in the United States is expected to exceed 58 million by 2021 and is the most rapidly growing segment of the population. This age group suffers from more chronic illnesses and disabilities than the rest of the population and accounts for a substantial portion of total healthcare expenditures in the United States. Introduction of New Pharmaceuticals. Traditional research and development, as well as the advent of new research, production, and delivery methods, such as biotechnology and gene therapy, continue to generate new pharmaceuticals and delivery methods that are more effective in treating diseases. We believe ongoing research and development expenditures by the leading pharmaceutical manufacturers will contribute to continued growth of the industry. In particular, we believe ongoing research and development of biotechnology and other specialty pharmaceutical drugs will provide opportunities for the continued growth of our specialty pharmaceuticals business. Increased Use of Generic Pharmaceuticals. A number of patents for widely used brand name pharmaceutical products will continue to expire during the next several years. In addition, increased emphasis by managed care and other third party payors on utilization of generics has accelerated their growth. We consider the increase in generic usage a favorable trend because generic pharmaceuticals have historically provided us with a greater gross profit margin opportunity than brand name products, although their lower prices reduce revenue growth. Generic pharmaceuticals currently account for approximately 90% of the prescription volume in the United States. Increased Use of Drug Therapies. In response to rising healthcare costs, governmental and private payors have adopted cost containment measures that encourage the use of efficient drug therapies to prevent or treat diseases. While national attention has been focused on the overall increase in aggregate healthcare costs, we believe drug therapy has had a beneficial impact on healthcare costs by reducing expensive surgeries and prolonged hospital stays. Pharmaceuticals currently account for approximately 12% of overall healthcare costs. Pharmaceutical manufacturers' continued emphasis on research and development is expected to result in the continuing introduction of cost effective drug therapies and new uses for existing drug therapies. 1 Table of Contents Legislative Developments. In recent years, regulation of the healthcare industry has changed significantly in an effort to increase drug utilization and reduce costs. In 2010, the federal government enacted major health reform legislation designed to expand access to health insurance, which increased the number of people in the United States who are eligible to be reimbursed for all or a portion of prescription drug costs. The health reform law provides for sweeping changes to Medicare and Medicaid policies (including drug reimbursement policies), expanded disclosure requirements regarding financial arrangements within the healthcare industry, enhanced enforcement authority to prevent fraud and abuse, and new taxes and fees on pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers. These policies and other legislative developments (including potential revisions to or repeal of any portions of the health reform legislation) may affect our businesses directly and or indirectly (see Government Regulation on page 6 for further details). Other economic conditions and certain risk factors could adversely affect our business and prospects (see Item 1A. Risk Factors on page 8). The Company We currently serve our customers (healthcare providers, pharmaceutical and biotech manufacturers) through a geographically diverse ne2rk of distribution service centers and other operations in the United States and selected global markets. In our pharmaceutical distribution business, we are typically the primary supplier of pharmaceutical and related products to our healthcare provider customers. We offer a broad range of services to our customers designed to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of their operations, which allow them to improve the delivery of healthcare to patients and to lower overall costs in the pharmaceutical supply channel. Strategy Our business strategy is focused on the global pharmaceutical supply channel where we provide value added distribution and global commercialization services to healthcare providers (primarily pharmacies, health systems, medical and dialysis clinics, physicians, and veterinarians) and pharmaceutical manufacturers that increase channel efficiencies and improve patient outcomes. We recently began to reorganize to further align our organization to our customer needs in a more seamless and unified way, while supporting corporate strategy and accelerating growth. Implementing this disciplined, focused strategy has allowed us to significantly expand our business, and we believe we are well positi1d to grow revenue and increase operating income through the execution of the following key elements of our business strategy Optimize and Grow Our Pharmaceutical Distribution and Strategic Global Sourcing Businesses. We believe we are well positi1d in size and market breadth to continue to grow our distribution businesses as we invest to improve our operating and capital efficiencies. Distribution, including specialty pharmaceuticals, anchors our growth and position in the pharmaceutical supply channel as we provide superior distribution services and deliver value added solutions, which improve the efficiency and competitiveness of both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers, thus allowing the pharmaceutical supply channel to better deliver healthcare to patients. We are a leader in distribution and services to community oncologists and have leading positions in other physician administered products. We distribute plasma and other blood products, injectable pharmaceuticals, vaccines, and other specialty products. We are well positi1d to service and support many of the new biotechnology therapies that are expected to be coming to market in the near future. With the continued growth of generic pharmaceuticals in the U.S. market, we have introduced strategies to enhance our position in the generic marketplace, including our generic product private label program based in Ireland. We source generics globally, offer a value added generic formulary program to our healthcare provider customers, and monitor our customers' compliance with our generics program. We also provide data and other valuable services to our manufacturing customers, which includes the expansion of our international presence into Switzerland, where we lead our global manufacturer relations and commercialization strategy. We offer value added services and solutions to assist healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers to improve their efficiency and their patient outcomes. Services for manufacturers include assistance with rapid new product launches, promotional and marketing services to accelerate product sales, product data reporting, and logistical support. Our provider solutions include our Good Neighbor Pharmacy program, which enables independent community pharmacies to compete more effectively through pharmaceutical benefit and merchandising programs; Elevate Provider Ne2rk , our managed care ne2rk, which connects our retail pharmacy customers to payor plans throughout the country and is 1 of the largest in the United States; generic product purchasing and private label services; hospital pharmacy consulting designed to improve operational efficiencies; and packaging solutions for institutional and retail healthcare providers. 2 Table of Contents We believe we have 1 of the lowest cost operating structures among all pharmaceutical distributors. Pharmaceutical Distribution Services has a distribution facility ne2rk totaling 28 distribution facilities in the United States. This ne2rk includes a national distribution center in Columbus, OH, which offers pharmaceutical manufacturers a single shipping destination. We continue to seek opportunities to achieve increased productivity and operating income gains as we invest in and continue to implement warehouse automation technology, adopt "best practices" in warehousing activities, and increase operating leverage by increasing volume per full service distribution facility. We continue to seek opportunities to expand our offerings in our Pharmaceutical Distribution and Strategic Global Sourcing businesses. Optimize and Grow Our Global Commercialization Services and Animal Health Businesses. Our consulting service businesses help global pharmaceutical and biotechnology manufacturers commercialize their products in the channel. We believe we are the largest provider of reimbursement services that assist pharmaceutical companies in supporting access to branded drugs. We also provide outcomes research, contract field staffing, patient assistance and copay assistance programs, adherence programs, risk mitigation services, and other market access programs to pharmaceutical companies. World Courier is a leading global specialty transportation and logistics provider for the biopharmaceutical industry. World Courier further strengthens our service offerings to global pharmaceutical manufacturers and provides an established platform for the introduction of our specialty services outside North America. MWI Animal Health ( MWI ) sells pharmaceuticals, vaccines, parasiticides, diagnostics, micro feed ingredients, and various other products to customers in both the companion animal and production animal markets. MWI also offers its customers a variety of value added services, including its e commerce platform, technology management systems, pharmacy fulfillment, inventory management system, equipment procurement consultation, special order fulfillment, and educational seminars, which we believe closely integrate MWI with its customers' day to day operations and provide them with meaningful incentives to continue doing business with MWI. We continue to seek opportunities to expand our offerings in our Global Commercialization Services and Animal Health businesses. Acquisitions. In order to grow our core strategic offerings and to enter related markets, we have acquired businesses and will continue to consider additional acquisitions. Divestitures. In order to allow us to concentrate on our strategic focus areas, we have divested certain non core businesses and may, from time to time, consider additional divestitures. Operations Operating Structure. We are organized based upon the products and services we provide to our customers. Our operations as of September 30, 2017 are comprised of the Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment and other operating segments that are not significant enough to require separate reportable segment disclosure, and, therefore, have been included in Other for the purpose of reportable segment presentation. Effective September 30, 2017, we reorganized our operating structure resulting in the combination of the legacy AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation ("ABDC") and AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group ("ABSG") operating segments into a single operating segment, Pharmaceutical Distribution Services. In addition, in connection with the completion of this reorganization, our non title third party logistics business, which was included within the Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment, was combined with the World Courier operating segment in Other, while the AmerisourceBergen Consulting Services ( ABCS ) distribution business (previously included in Other) is included in the Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment. See Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for reportable segment information. Pharmaceutical Distribution Services Segment Servicing healthcare providers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Pharmaceutical Distribution Services segment's operations provide drug distribution, strategic global sourcing and related services designed to reduce healthcare costs and improve patient outcomes. The Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment distributes a comprehensive offering of brand name, specialty brand name and generic pharmaceuticals, over the counter healthcare products, home healthcare supplies and equipment, outsourced compounded sterile preparations, and related services to a wide variety of healthcare providers, including acute care hospitals and health systems, independent and chain retail pharmacies, mail order pharmacies, medical clinics, long term care and alternate site pharmacies, and other customers. Through a number of operating businesses, the Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment provides pharmaceutical distribution (including plasma and other blood products, injectible pharmaceuticals, vaccines, and other specialty pharmaceutical products) and additional services to physicians who specialize in a variety of disease states, especially oncology, and to other healthcare providers, including hospitals and dialysis clinics. Additionally, the Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment provides data analytics, outcomes research, and additional services for 3 Table of Contents biotechnology and pharmaceutical manufacturers. The Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment also provides pharmacy management, staffing and additional consulting services, and supply management software to a variety of retail and institutional healthcare providers. Additionally, it delivers packaging solutions to institutional and retail healthcare providers. Other Other consists of operating segments that focus on global commercialization services and animal health and includes ABCS, World Courier, and MWI. ABCS, through a number of operating businesses, provides a full suite of integrated manufacturer services that range from clinical trial support to product post approval and commercialization support. World Courier, which operates in more than 50 countries, is a leading global specialty transportation and logistics provider for the biopharmaceutical industry. MWI is a leading animal health distribution company in the United States and in the United Kingdom. MWI sells pharmaceuticals, vaccines, parasiticides, diagnostics, micro feed ingredients, and various other products to customers in both the companion animal and production animal markets. Additionally, MWI offers demand creating sales force services to manufacturers. Sales and Marketing. The majority of Pharmaceutical Distribution Services sales force is led nationally, with geographic focus and specialized by either healthcare provider type or size. Customer service representatives are centralized in order to respond to customer needs in a timely and effective manner. Pharmaceutical Distribution Services also has support professionals focused on its various technologies and service offerings. Pharmaceutical Distribution Services sales teams also serve national account customers through close coordination with local distribution centers and ensure that our customers are receiving service offerings that meet their needs. Our other operating segments each have independent sales forces that specialize in their respective product and service offerings. In addition, we have an enterprise wide marketing group that coordinates branding and all other marketing activities across the Company. Customers. We have a diverse customer base that includes institutional and retail healthcare providers as well as pharmaceutical manufacturers. Institutional healthcare providers include acute care hospitals, health systems, mail order pharmacies, long term care and other alternate care pharmacies, and providers of pharmacy services to such facilities, physicians, and physician group practices. Retail healthcare providers include national and regional retail drugstore chains, independent community pharmacies, pharmacy departments of supermarkets and mass merchandisers, and veterinarians. We are typically the primary source of supply for our healthcare provider customers. Our manufacturing customers include branded, generic, and biotechnology manufacturers of prescription pharmaceuticals, as well as over the counter product and health and beauty aid manufacturers. In addition, we offer a broad range of value added solutions designed to enhance the operating efficiencies and competitive positions of our customers, thereby allowing them to improve the delivery of healthcare to patients and consumers. Our 2 largest customers, Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. ("WBA") and Express Scripts, Inc. ("Express Scripts"), accounted for approximately 30% and approximately 15% , respectively, of revenue in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 . Our top 10 customers, including governmental agencies and group purchasing organizations ("GPOs"), represented approximately 66% of revenue in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 . The loss of any major customer or GPO relationship could adversely affect future revenue and results of operations. If those contracts are not renewed or are renewed at less favorable terms, they may negatively impact our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows. Suppliers. We obtain pharmaceutical and other products from manufacturers, n1 of which accounted for 10% or more of our purchases in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017. The loss of a supplier could adversely affect our business if alternate sources of supply are unavailable since we are committed to be the primary source of pharmaceutical products for a majority of our customers. We believe that our relationships with our suppliers are strong. The 10 largest suppliers in fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 accounted for approximately 48% of our purchases. Information Systems. The Pharmaceutical Distribution Services operating segment operates its full service wholesale pharmaceutical distribution facilities in the United States on 2 primary enterprise resource planning ("ERP") systems. Pharmaceutical Distribution Services ERP systems provide for, among other things, electronic order entry by customers, invoice preparation and purchasing, and inventory tracking. All of our other operating segments operate the majority of their businesses on their own common, centralized ERP systems resulting in operating efficiencies as well as the ability to rapidly deploy new capabilities. We are currently making significant investments to enhance and upgrade the ERP systems utilized by our other operating segments. Additionally, we are improving our entity wide infrastructure environment to drive efficiency, capabilities, and speed to market. We will continue to invest in advanced information systems and automated warehouse technology. For example, in an effort to comply with future pedigree and other supply chain custody requirements (see Risk Factor Increasing governmental 4 Table of Contents efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply channel and pharmaceutical compounding may increase our costs and reduce our profitability) , we expect to continue to make significant investments in our secure supply chain information systems. In the fiscal 2017, Pharmaceutical Distribution Services continued making significant investments in its electronic ordering systems. Pharmaceutical Distribution Services systems are intended to strengthen customer relationships by allowing the customer to lower operating costs and by providing a platform for a number of the basic and value added services offered to our customers, including product demand data, inventory replenishment, single source billing, third party claims processing, real time price and incentive updates, and price labels. Pharmaceutical Distribution Services processes a substantial portion of its purchase orders, invoices, and payments electronically. However, it continues to make substantial investments to expand its electronic interface with its suppliers. Pharmaceutical Distribution Services has warehouse operating systems, which are used to manage the majority of Pharmaceutical Distribution Services transactional volume. The warehouse operating systems have improved Pharmaceutical Distribution Services productivity and operating leverage. A significant portion of our information technology activities are outsourced to IBM Global Services and other third party service providers. Competition We face a highly competitive global environment in the distribution of pharmaceuticals and related healthcare services. Our largest competitors are McKesson Corporation ("McKesson"), Cardinal Health, Inc. ("Cardinal"), FFF Enterprises, Henry Schein, Inc. and UPS Logistics, among others. Pharmaceutical Distribution Services competes with both McKesson and Cardinal, as well as national generic distributors and regional distributors within pharmaceutical distribution. In addition, we compete with manufacturers who sell directly to customers, chain drugstores who manage their own warehousing, specialty distributors, and packaging and healthcare technology companies. Our ABCS, World Courier, and MWI businesses also face competition from a variety of competitors. In all areas, competitive factors include price, product offerings, value added service programs, service and delivery, credit terms, and customer support. Intellectual Property We use a number of trademarks and service marks. All of the principal trademarks and service marks used in the course of our business have been registered in the United States and, in some cases, in foreign jurisdictions or are the subject of pending applications for registration. We have developed or acquired various proprietary products, processes, software, and other intellectual property that are used either to facilitate the conduct of our business or that are made available as products or services to customers. We generally seek to protect such intellectual property through a combination of trade secret, patent and copyright laws, and through confidentiality and other contractually imposed protections. We hold patents and have patent applications pending that relate to certain of our products, particularly our automated pharmacy dispensing equipment, our medication and supply dispensing equipment, certain warehousing equipment, and some of our proprietary packaging solutions. We seek patent protection for our proprietary intellectual property from time to time as appropriate. Although we believe that our patents or other proprietary products and processes do not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of any third parties, third parties may assert infringement claims against us from time to time. Employees As of September 30, 2017 , we had approximately 20,000 employees, of which approximately 19,000 were full time employees. Approximately 2% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good. If any of our employees in locations that are unionized should engage in strikes or other such bargaining tactics in connection with the negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements upon the expiration of any existing collective bargaining agreements, such tactics could be disruptive to our operations and adversely affect our results of operations, but we believe we have adequate contingency plans in place to assure delivery of pharmaceuticals to our customers in the event of any such disruptions. 5 Table of Contents Government Regulation We are subject to extensive oversight by various federal and state governmental entities and we are subject to, and affected by, a variety of federal and state laws, regulations, and policies. The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration ("DEA"), the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"), and various other federal and state regulatory authorities regulate the compounding, purchase, storage, and or distribution of pharmaceutical products, including controlled substances. Wholesale distributors of controlled substances and entities that compound pharmaceuticals that contain controlled substances must hold valid DEA licenses, meet various security and operating standards, and comply with regulations governing the sale, marketing, compounding, packaging, holding, and distribution of controlled substances. Our Section 503B outsourcing facilities must comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices ("GMPs") and are inspected by the FDA periodically to determine that we are complying with such GMPs. The DEA, FDA, and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to suspend our distribution centers or Section 503B outsourcing facilities from distributing pharmaceutical products including controlled substances, seize or recall products, and impose significant criminal, civil, and administrative sanctions. We have all necessary licenses or other regulatory approvals and believe that we are in compliance with all applicable pharmaceutical compounding and wholesale distribution requirements needed to conduct our current operations. We and our customers are subject to fraud and abuse laws, including the federal anti kickback statute. The anti kickback statute prohibits persons from soliciting, offering, receiving, or paying any remuneration in order to induce the purchasing, leasing, or ordering, induce a referral to purchase, lease, or order, or arrange for or recommend purchasing, leasing, or ordering Item or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal healthcare programs. The fraud and abuse laws and regulations are broad in scope and are subject to frequent and varied interpretation. In recent years, some states have passed or proposed laws and regulations that are intended to protect the safety of the pharmaceutical supply channel. These laws and regulations are designed to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, diverted, adulterated, or mislabeled pharmaceuticals into the distribution system. At the federal level, the supply chain security legislation known as the Drug Quality and Security Act ( DQSA ) became law in 2013 The DQSA establishes federal traceability standards requiring drugs to be labeled and tracked at the lot level, preempts state drug pedigree requirements, and will eventually require all supply chain stakeholders to participate in an electronic, interoperable prescription drug traceability system. The DSQA also establishes new requirements for drug wholesale distributors and third party logistics providers, including licensing requirements in states that had not previously licensed such entities. Over the next few years, the FDA, and eventually comparable state agencies, will promulgate implementing regulations governing wholesale distributor and third party logistics providers. 1 additional change resulting from the DQSA is the creation of 503B outsourcing facilities as a new category for providers of compounded sterile preparations ("CSP"), allowing such facilities to voluntarily register with the FDA. Our CSP business locations have registered with the FDA as Section 503B outsourcing facilities and have implemented policies and procedures to achieve compliance with current federal and state requirements for such facilities. There can be no assurance that we are fully compliant with the new DQSA requirements, or with additional state regulatory and licensing requirements for 503B outsourcing facilities, and any failure to comply may result in additional costs to bring our operations into compliance. These and other requirements will continue to increase the cost of our operations. Federal insurance and health care reform legislation known as the Affordable Care Act became law in 2010. The Affordable Care Act is intended to expand health insurance, including coverage for at least a portion of drug costs, through a combination of insurance market reforms, an expansion of Medicaid, subsidies, and health insurance mandates. The Affordable Care Act contains many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and reduce the costs of Medicare and Medicaid. Among other things, the Affordable Care Act changed the formula for Medicaid federal upper payment limits for multiple source drugs available for purchase by retail community pharmacies on a nationwide basis to no less than 175% of the weighted average manufacturer price. Further, implementing regulations require state Medicaid programs to apply payment mechanisms for branded prescription drugs which are consistent with pharmacies' "actual acquisition costs" for drugs. These provisions could reduce prescription drug reimbursement levels under state Medicaid programs. As a result of political, economic, and regulatory influences, scrutiny of the healthcare delivery system in the United States can be expected to continue at both the state and federal levels. This process may result in additional legislation and or regulation governing the production, delivery, or pricing of pharmaceutical products, as well as additional changes to the structure of the present healthcare delivery system. In addition, changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant additional compliance costs or the discontinuation of our ability to continue to operate our distribution centers or Section 503B outsourcing facilities, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any future reductions in Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement rates could negatively impact our customers' businesses and their ability to continue to purchase drugs from us. We cannot predict what additional initiatives, if any, will be adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on us. 6 Table of Contents We are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental laws, including with respect to the sale, transportation, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, as well as laws relating to safe working conditions and laboratory practices. The costs, burdens, and or impacts of complying with federal and state regulations could be significant and the failure to comply with any such legal requirements could have a significant impact on our results of operations and financial condition. See "Risk Factors" below for a discussion of additional legal and regulatory developments, as well as enforcement actions or other litigation that may arise out of our failure to adequately comply with applicable laws and regulations that may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Health Information and Privacy Practices The Health Information Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPAA") and its implementing regulations set forth privacy and security standards designed to protect the privacy of and provide for the security of protected health information, as such term is defined under the HIPAA regulations. Some of our businesses collect, maintain, and or access protected health information and are subject to the HIPAA regulations. Our operations, depending on their location, may also be subject to state or foreign regulations affecting personal data protection and the manner in which information services or products are provided. Significant criminal and civil penalties may be imposed for violation of HIPAA standards and other such laws. We have a HIPAA compliance program to facilitate our ongoing efforts to comply with the HIPAA regulations. The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act ("HITECH Act"), enacted as part of the 2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act ("ARRA"), strengthened federal privacy and security provisions governing protected health information. Among other things, the HITECH Act expanded certain aspects of the HIPAA privacy and security rules, imposed new notification requirements related to health data security breaches, broadened the rights of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services ("HHS") to enforce HIPAA, and directed HHS to publish more specific security standards. On January 25, 2013, the Office for Civil Rights of HHS published the HIPAA omnibus final rule ("HIPAA Final Rule"), which amended certain aspects of the HIPAA privacy, security, and enforcement rules pursuant to the HITECH Act, extending certain HIPAA obligations to business associates and their subcontractors. Certain comp1nts of our business act as "business associates" within the meaning of HIPAA and are subject to these additional obligations under the HIPAA Final Rule. Some of our businesses collect, maintain, and or access other personal information (including sensitive personal information) that is subject to federal and state laws protecting such information, in addition to the requirements of HIPAA, the HITECH Act, and the implementing regulations. Personally identifiable information is also highly regulated in many other countries in which we operate. As such regulations continue to evolve, we need to comply with applicable privacy and security requirements of these countries, including but not limited to those in the European Union. Most notably certain aspects of our business will be subject to the General Data Protection Regulation which becomes effective in the European Union on May 25, 2018. There can be no assurances that compliance with these requirements will not impose new costs on our business. Available Information For more information about us, visit our website at www.amerisourcebergen.com . The contents of the website are not part of this Form 10 K. Our electronic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including all Forms 10 K, 10 Q, and 8 K, and any amendments to these reports) are available free of charge through the "Investor Relations" section of our website immediately after we electronically file with or furnish them to the Securities and Exchange Commission and may also be viewed using their website at www.sec.gov . 7 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following discussion describes certain risk factors that we believe could affect our business and prospects. These risk factors are in addition to those set forth elsewhere in this report. Our results of operations could be adversely impacted by manufacturer pricing changes and fewer generic pharmaceutical launches. In fiscal 2017, we experienced unfavorable trends in brand and generic pharmaceutical pricing which negatively impacted our Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment profit and our consolidated operating earnings. Those trends are expected to continue in fiscal 2018, and could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. Certain distribution service agreements that we have entered into with branded and generic pharmaceutical manufacturers continue to have an inflation based compensation comp1nt to them. As a result, our gross profit from brand name and generic manufacturers continues to be subject to fluctuation based upon the timing and extent of manufacturer price increases, which we do not control. If the frequency or rate of branded and generic pharmaceutical price increases slows, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, generic pharmaceuticals are also subject to price deflation. If the frequency or rate of generic pharmaceutical price deflation accelerates, the negative impact on our results of operations will be greater. A decline in the number of generic pharmaceutical launches, or launches that are less profitable than those in the past, could also adversely impact our results of operations. Competition and industry consolidation may erode our profit. As described in greater detail in the Competition section beginning on page 5, the industries in which we operate are highly competitive. In addition, in recent years the healthcare industry has been subject to increasing consolidation, including among pharmaceutical manufacturers. If we do not compete successfully, it could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The impact on us will be greater if consolidation among our customers, suppliers, and competitors gives the resulting enterprises greater bargaining power, which could lead to greater pressure on us to reduce prices for our products and services. Increasing governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply channel and pharmaceutical compounding may increase our costs and reduce our profitability. The healthcare industry in the United States is highly regulated at the federal and state levels. There have been increasing efforts by Congress and state and federal agencies, including state boards of pharmacy, departments of health, and the FDA, to regulate the pharmaceutical distribution system and pharmacy compounding activities. Regulation of pharmaceutical distribution is intended to prevent diversion and the introduction of counterfeit, adulterated, and or mislabeled drugs into the pharmaceutical distribution system. Consequently, we are subject to the risk of changes in various federal and state laws, which include operating and security standards of the DEA, the FDA, various state boards of pharmacy and comparable agencies. In recent years, some states have passed or proposed laws and regulations that are intended to protect the safety and security of the supply channel but that also may substantially increase the costs and burden of pharmaceutical distribution and pharmaceutical compounding. At the federal level, final regulations issued pursuant to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act impose pedigree tracking and other chain of custody requirements that increase the costs and or burden to us of selling to other pharmaceutical distributors and handling product returns. In addition, the FDA Amendments Act of 2007 requires the FDA to establish standards and identify and validate effective technologies for the purpose of securing the pharmaceutical supply chain against counterfeit drugs. These standards include track and trace and or authentication technologies that leverage 2D data matrix barcodes that are applied by the manufacturer to the sellable units and cases. The FDA is also required to develop a standardized numerical identifier ("SNI") for prescription drugs. In March 2010, the FDA issued guidance regarding the development of SNIs for prescription drugs in which the FDA mandated package level SNIs, as an initial step in the FDA's development of additional measures to secure the drug supply chain. In November 2013, Congress passed the Drug Quality and Security Act ("DQSA"). The DQSA establishes federal traceability standards requiring drugs to be labeled and tracked at the lot level, preempts state drug pedigree requirements, and will eventually require all supply chain stakeholders to participate in an electronic, interoperable prescription drug traceability system. The DSQA also establishes new requirements for drug wholesale distributors and third party logistics providers, including licensing requirements in states that had not previously licensed such entities. 1 additional change resulting from the DQSA is the creation of Section 503B outsourcing facilities as a new category for producers of compounded sterile preparations ("CSPs"), allowing such facilities to voluntarily register with the FDA. Our CSP business locations have registered with the FDA as Section 503B outsourcing facilities and have implemented policies and procedures to achieve compliance with current DQSA requirements for such facilities. However, there can be no assurance that 8 Table of Contents we are fully compliant with the new requirements, and any failure to comply may result in additional costs to bring our CSP facilities into compliance. Moreover, the FDA will continue to issue draft and final guidance and to promulgate regulations in its efforts to implement the requirements in the DQSA, including those relating to current good manufacturing practices ("GMPs") and other matters related to 503B outsourcing facilities, which may require changes to our CSP business, some of which may be significant. Complying with these and other chain of custody and pharmaceutical compounding requirements will increase our costs and could otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. Legal, regulatory and legislative changes may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Both our business and our customers' businesses may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and or medical treatments or services or changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined. Additionally, on occasion, price increases on certain branded and generic pharmaceuticals have been the subject of U.S. Congressional inquiries. Any law or regulation impacting pharmaceutical pricing, including as a result of pricing controls or legislative efforts at the federal or state level, could adversely affect our operations. Federal insurance and health care reform legislation known as the Affordable Care Act ("ACA") became law in March 2010. The ACA is intended to expand health insurance coverage, including coverage for at least a portion of drug costs, through a combination of insurance market reforms, an expansion of Medicaid, subsidies, and health insurance mandates. The ACA contains many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and reduce the costs of Medicare and Medicaid. Given the scope of the changes made by the ACA and the ongoing implementation efforts, we cannot predict the impact of every aspect of the law on our operations. Likewise, we cannot predict the impact of any efforts to change or repeal any provisions of the ACA. The ACA changed the formula for Medicaid federal upper payment limits ( FULs ) for multiple source drugs available for purchase by retail community pharmacies on a nationwide basis to a limit of not less than 175% of the weighted average manufacturer price ("AMP"). On February 1, 2016, CMS published its final rule to implement the ACA's Medicaid covered outpatient drug provisions, under which CMS calculates FULs for multiple source drugs as 175% of the weighted average of AMPs, with certain exceptions. In addition, the rule requires state Medicaid programs to implement payment methods for brand (non multiple source) products designed to be consistent with the actual acquisition cost of such drugs. The rule was generally effective on April 1, 2016, and states had until May 2016 to implement the FULs and have until April 1, 2017 to implement any changes necessary in light of the actual acquisition cost standard. Medicaid reimbursement for drugs calculated under the final rule may represent significant reductions from prior reimbursement levels, although the impact of the changes depends upon how the changes are implemented by each state Medicaid program. Any reduction in the Medicaid reimbursement rates to our customers may indirectly impact the prices that we can charge our customers for multisource pharmaceuticals and cause corresponding declines in our profitability. The ACA also amended the Medicaid rebate statute to increase minimum Medicaid rebates paid by pharmaceutical manufacturers and made other changes expected to result in increased Medicaid rebate payments by pharmaceutical manufacturers, which could indirectly impact our business. In addition, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 extended to generic drugs inflation based Medicaid drug rebates similar to those that are paid on brand drugs. The federal government and state governments could take other actions in the future that impact Medicaid reimbursement and rebate amounts or the cost of drugs. There can be no assurance that recent or future changes in Medicaid prescription drug reimbursement policies will not have an adverse impact on our business. Unless we are able to develop plans to mitigate the potential impact of these legislative and regulatory changes, these changes in reimbursement and related reporting requirements could adversely affect our results of operations. The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 significantly expanded Medicare coverage for outpatient prescription drugs through the Medicare Part D program. The Part D program has increased the use of pharmaceuticals in the supply channel, which has had a positive impact on our revenues and profitability. There have been additional legislative and regulatory changes to the Part D program since its enactment. There can be no assurances that recent and future changes to the Part D program will not have an adverse impact on our business. The federal government may adopt measures in the future that would further reduce Medicare and or Medicaid spending or impose additional requirements on health care entities. For instance, under the "sequestration" provision of the Budget Control Act of 2011 (as amended), a 2% cut is being made to Medicare provider and plan payments, generally effective for services provided on or after April 1, 2013 Any future reductions in Medicare reimbursement rates could negatively impact our customers' businesses and their ability to continue to purchase such drugs from us. At this time, we can provide no assurances that future Medicare and or Medicaid payment or policy changes, if adopted, would not have an adverse effect on our business. 9 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected in the future by the impact of declining reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and other economic factors. Our Pharmaceutical Distribution Services segment sells specialty drugs directly to physicians and community oncology practices and provides a number of services to or through physicians. Drugs that are administered in a physician's office, such as drugs that are infused or injected, are typically covered under Medicare Part B. Declining reimbursement rates for Medicare Part B drugs and other economic factors have caused a number of physician practices, including some of our customers, to move from private practice to hospital settings, where they may purchase their specialty drugs under hospital prime vendor arrangements rather than from specialty distributors. Although this trend has slowed down in the past year, it could increase in the future due to various factors, including legislative and regulatory requirements that affect how CMS reimburses for Medicare Part B drugs, as well as the ability of certain hospitals to purchase drugs at significant, statutorily mandated discounts pursuant to the federal 340B drug discount program for groups of patients. In addition, federal changes in drug reimbursement policy could reduce the rate of reimbursement for drugs covered under Medicare Part B or physician services under Medicare, which could negatively impact our customers' businesses and their ability to continue to purchase such drugs from us, and thereby result in corresponding declines in our profitability. On September 20, 2017, CMS issued a request for information seeking recommendations for payment models, which could include prescription drug models under Medicare Parts B and D and state Medicaid programs. CMS noted its interest in drug pricing and value based purchasing models involving "novel arrangements between plans, manufacturers, and stakeholders across the supply chain." Additionally, CMS published a proposed rule on July 20, 2016 that would cut Medicare outpatient hospital reimbursement for separately payable drugs (other than vaccines) purchased through the 340B drug pricing program at average sales price (ASP) minus 225% (with certain exceptions), rather than ASP plus 6%. CMS finalized this rule on November 1, 2017. At this time, we can provide no assurances that future Medicare reimbursement or policy changes, if adopted, would not have an adverse effect on our business. Changes to the U.S. healthcare environment may negatively impact our business and our profitability. Our products and services are intended to function within the structure of the healthcare financing and reimbursement system currently existing in the United States. In recent years, the healthcare industry has underg1 significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government spending. These changes include an increased reliance on managed care; cuts in certain Medicare funding affecting our healthcare provider customer base; consolidation of competitors, suppliers and customers; and the development of large, sophisticated purchasing groups. We expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Some of these potential changes, such as a reduction in governmental funding at the state or federal level for certain healthcare services or adverse changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription drug pricing, pharmaceutical compounding, healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare industry participants to reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. We expect continued government and private payor pressure to reduce pharmaceutical pricing. Changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing or distribution policies could also significantly reduce our profitability. If we fail to comply with laws and regulations in respect of healthcare fraud and abuse, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. We are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal and state laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. The federal government continues to strengthen its scrutiny of practices potentially involving healthcare fraud affecting Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. Our relationships with healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers subject our business to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse which, among other things, (i) prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient for treatment or the ordering or purchasing of Item or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid or other government sponsored healthcare programs and (ii) impose a number of restrictions upon referring physicians and providers of designated health services under Medicare and Medicaid programs. Legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse give federal enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected fraud and abuse, and these enforcement authorities were further expanded by the ACA. While we believe that we are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, many of the regulations applicable to us, including those relating to marketing incentives offered in connection with pharmaceutical sales, are vague or indefinite, and have not been interpreted by the courts. They may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or our ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal and state healthcare programs. 10 Table of Contents Public concern over the abuse of opioid medications, including increased legal and regulatory action, could negatively affect our business. Certain governmental and regulatory agencies, as well as state and local jurisdictions, are focused on the abuse of opioid medications in the United States. State and local governmental agencies are investigating us, other pharmaceutical wholesale distributors, and others in the supply chain regarding our actions in connection with the distribution of opioid medications. In addition, multiple lawsuits have been filed against us and other pharmaceutical wholesale distributors alleging, among other claims, that we failed to provide effective controls and procedures to guard against the diversion of controlled substances, acted negligently by distributing controlled substances to pharmacies that serve individuals who abuse controlled substances, and failed to report suspicious orders of controlled substances in accordance with regulations. Additional governmental entities have indicated an intent to sue. We have sophisticated systems in place to detect and report suspicious orders (including through the use of data analytics), engage in significant due diligence of customers, and are committed to diversion control efforts. While we are vigorously defending ourselves in these lawsuits, the allegations may negatively affect our business in various ways, including through increased costs and harm to our reputation. Since these matters are at an early stage, we are unable to predict the outcome. The adverse resolution of any of these lawsuits or investigations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and the price of our common stock. Our business, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected by qui tam litigation or other legal proceedings. Our business involves the manufacture, distribution, and dispensing of healthcare products, which may cause us to become involved in legal disputes or proceedings. The defense and resolutions of these current and future proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Violations of various federal and state laws governing the marketing, sale, purchase, and dispensing of pharmaceutical products can result in criminal, civil, and administrative liability for which there can be significant financial damages, criminal and civil penalties, and possible exclusion from participation in federal and state health programs. Any settlement, judgment or fine that is in excess of our insurance limits, or that is not otherwise covered, could adversely affect our results of operations. Among other things, statutory and or regulatory violations can form the basis for qui tam complaints to be filed. The qui tam provisions of the federal and various state civil False Claims Acts authorize a private person, known as a relator, to file civil actions under these statutes on behalf of the federal and state governments. Under False Claims Acts, the filing of a qui tam complaint by a relator imposes obligations on government authorities to investigate the allegations and determine whether or not to intervene in the action. Such cases may involve allegations around the marketing, sale, purchase, and or dispensing of branded and or generic pharmaceutical products and wrongdoing in the marketing, sale, purchase, and or dispensing of such products. Such complaints are filed under seal and remain sealed until the applicable court orders otherwise. We have learned that there are filings in 1 or more federal district courts that are under seal and may involve allegations against us (and or our subsidiaries or businesses, including our group purchasing organization for oncologists and our oncology distribution business) relating to its distribution of certain pharmaceutical products to providers. With regard to any of these filings, our business, and results of operations could be adversely affected if qui tam complaints are filed against us for alleged violations of any health laws and regulations and damages arising from resultant false claims, if the litigation proceeds whether or not government authorities decide to intervene in any such matters and or if we are found liable for all or any portion of violations alleged in any such matters. Our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows may suffer upon the loss, or renewal at less favorable terms, of a significant customer or group purchasing organization. WBA accounted for approximately 30% of our revenue in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 . Express Scripts accounted for approximately 15% of our revenue in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 . Our top ten customers, including governmental agencies and GPOs, represented approximately 66% of revenue in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 . We may lose a significant customer or GPO relationship if any existing contract with such customer or GPO expires without being extended, renewed, renegotiated or replaced or is terminated by the customer or GPO prior to expiration, to the extent such early termination is permitted by the contract. A number of our contracts with significant customers or GPOs are typically subject to expiration each year and we may lose any of these customers or GPO relationships if we are unable to extend, renew, renegotiate or replace the contracts. The loss of any significant customer or GPO relationship could adversely affect our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows. Additionally, from time to time, significant contracts may be renewed prior to their expiration date. If those contracts are renewed at less favorable terms, they may also negatively impact our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents The anticipated ongoing strategic and financial benefits of our relationship with WBA may not be realized. In May 2016, we extended to 2026 our strategic arrangement with WBA specifically, our distribution agreement under which we distribute drugs to Walgreens pharmacies and our generics purchasing services arrangement under which Walgreens Boots Alliance Development GmbH ("WBAD") provides a variety of services, including negotiating acquisition pricing with generic manufacturers on our behalf. This reflected our expectation that partnering strategically with WBA would result in various benefits including, among other things, continued cost savings as a result of our generics purchasing services arrangement with WBAD, as well as the potential for exploring innovation together and sharing best practices. The processes and initiatives needed to achieve and maintain these benefits are complex, costly and time consuming. Achieving the anticipated benefits from the arrangement on an ongoing basis is subject to a number of significant challenges and uncertainties, including the potential inability to realize and or delays in realizing potential benefits resulting from participation in our generics purchasing services arrangement with WBAD, including improved generic drug pricing and terms, improved service fees from generic manufacturers, cost savings, innovations, or other benefits due to its inability to negotiate successfully with generic manufacturers or otherwise to perform as expected; the potential disruption of our plans and operations as a result of the terms under which we extended the duration of the distribution agreement and generics purchasing services agreement, including any disruption of our cash flow and ability to return value to our stockholders in accordance with our past practices and any reduction in our operational, strategic or financial flexibility; potential changes in supplier relationships and terms; unexpected or unforeseen costs, fees, expenses and charges incurred by us related to the transaction or the overall strategic relationship; unforeseen changes in the economic terms under which we distribute pharmaceuticals to WBA; and any potential issues that could impede our ability to continue to work collaboratively with WBA in an efficient and effective manner in furtherance of the anticipated strategic and financial benefits of the relationship. In addition, WBA has the right, but not the obligation, under the transactions contemplated by the Framework and Shareholder Agreements dated March 18, 2013 to make certain additional investments in our common stock. WBA also has the right to sell any of the shares of our common stock that it has acquired so long as WBA has held the shares beyond the requisite dates specified in the Shareholder Agreement. Any sales in the public market of common stock currently held by WBA or acquired by WBA pursuant to open market purchases could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. We could also encounter unforeseen costs, circumstances, or issues with respect to the transactions and collaboration we anticipate pursuing with WBA. Many of these potential circumstances are outside of our control and any of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, decreased benefits and the diversion of management time and attention. If we are unable to achieve our objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected future benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and the price of our common stock. A disruption in our distribution or generic purchasing services arrangements with WBA could adversely affect our business and financial results. We are the primary distributor of pharmaceutical products for WBA. Our generic pharmaceutical program has also benefited from the generics purchasing services arrangement with WBA. If the operations of WBA are seriously disrupted for any reason, whether by natural disaster, labor disruption, regulatory or governmental action, or otherwise, it could adversely affect our business and our sales and profitability. If the generics purchasing services arrangement does not continue to be successful, our margins and results of operations could also be adversely affected. If our operations are seriously disrupted for any reason, we may have an obligation to pay or credit WBA for failure to supply products. In addition, upon the expiration or termination of the distribution agreement or generics purchasing services arrangement, there can be no assurance that we or WBA will be willing to renew, on terms favorable to us or at all. In addition, our business may be adversely affected by any operational, financial or regulatory difficulties that WBA experiences, including any disruptions of certain of its existing distribution facilities or retail pharmacies resulting from ongoing inspections by the DEA and or state regulatory agencies and possible revocation of the controlled substance registrations for those facilities and pharmacies. Tax legislation or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are a large corporation with operations in the United States and select global markets. As such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of the U.S. federal, state and local governments, and of various foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives, such as the repeal of last in, first out ("LIFO") treatment, may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions and or our tax liabilities. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by legislation resulting from these initiatives. We believe that our historical tax positions are consistent with applicable laws, regulations, and existing precedent. In addition, U.S. federal, state and local, as well as foreign, tax laws and 12 Table of Contents regulations, are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. The suspension or revocation by federal or state authorities of any of the registrations that must be in effect for our distribution and 503B outsourcing facilities to purchase, compound, store, and or distribute pharmaceuticals and controlled substances, the refusal by such authorities to issue a registration to any such facility, or any enforcement action or other litigation that arises out of our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing distribution and 503B outsourcing facilities may adversely affect our reputation, our business and our results of operations. The DEA, FDA, and various other federal and state regulatory authorities regulate the distribution of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances and the compounding of pharmaceuticals that contain controlled substances. We are required to hold valid DEA and state level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the Controlled Substances Act and its implementing regulations governing the sale, marketing, packaging, compounding, holding and distribution of controlled substances. Government authorities may from time to time investigate whether we are in compliance with various security and operating standards applicable to the distribution of controlled substances including whether we are adequately detecting and preventing the illegal diversion of controlled substances. Although we have procedures in place that are intended to ensure compliance with such laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or tribunal would conclude that our operations are compliant with applicable laws and regulations. If we were found to be non compliant with such laws and regulations, federal and state authorities have broad enforcement powers, including (i) the ability to suspend our distribution centers' and 503B outsourcing facilities' licenses to distribute and compound pharmaceutical products (including controlled substances), (ii) seize or recall products, and (iii) impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations. We have received, and may in the future receive, requests for information, letters and subpoenas from the DEA, FDA, various U.S. Attorneys' Offices of the U.S. Department of Justice, and or state attorneys general and state regulatory authorities and agencies related to our distribution of controlled substances and our order monitoring program, which is designed to prevent and detect the illegal diversion of controlled substances, or other matters. We generally respond to subpoenas, requests, letters, and other authority and or agency correspondence in a thorough and timely manner. These responses require time and effort and can result in considerable costs being incurred by us, such as costs related to addressing the observations listed on FDA Form 483 reports. Such subpoenas, requests and letters can also lead to the assertion of claims or the commencement of civil, criminal, or regulatory legal proceedings against us, as well as to settlements and the suspension or revocation of registrations required by our distribution and 503B outsourcing facilities, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations. The FDA and other governmental entities enforce compliance with applicable current GMP requirements through periodic risk based inspections. It is common for FDA Form 483 reports to be provided in connection with inspections of 503B outsourcing facilities, and FDA observations may be followed by warning letters or subsequent enforcement actions. Prior to our acquisition of the business, PharMEDium received a warning letter from the FDA in 2014 following the inspection of PharMEDium's Mississippi, New Jersey, Tennessee and Texas 503B outsourcing facilities in 2013 The FDA reinspected all of these facilities in 2015 and 2016 and issued FDA Form 483 reports at each of the facilities as well as at PharMEDium headquarters in Lake Forest, Illinois. We cannot be assured that the FDA will be satisfied with the sufficiency or timing of PharMEDium corrective actions in response to the FDA's Form 483 reports, including PharMEDium's meeting with the FDA on November 18, 2016, and, as such, we cannot predict when or if the FDA will consider the agency observations to be fully resolved. A failure to adequately address observations identified by the FDA in Form 483 reports or warning letters issued by the FDA or observations identified by any other federal and state regulatory authority, including a failure to resolve the observations identified by the FDA in the 2014 warning letter and subsequent FDA Form 483 reports relating to PharMEDium 503B outsourcing facilities, could lead to an enforcement action, m1tary penalties and or license revocation, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations. The products compounded by our CSP business are administered by our customers to patients intravenously, and failures or errors in production, labeling or packaging could contribute to patient harm or death, which may subject us to significant liabilities and reputational harm. The production, labeling, and packaging of CSPs is inherently risky. Our CSP business sells CSPs to acute care hospitals, freestanding hospital outpatient departments, and ambulatory surgery centers, who then administer the CSPs to patients intravenously or through other injectable routes of administration. There are a number of factors that could result in the injury or death of a patient who receives 1 of our CSPs, including quality issues, manufacturing or labeling flaws, improper packaging or unanticipated or improper uses of the products, any of which could result from human or other error. Any of these situations could lead to a recall of, or safety alert relating to, 1 or more of our products. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, we may voluntarily recall or retrieve products. Any recall or retrieval, whether voluntary or requested by the FDA or state regulatory 13 Table of Contents authorities, could result in significant costs and negative publicity. Negative publicity, including regarding a quality or safety issue, whether accurate or inaccurate, could reduce market acceptance of our products, harm our reputation, decrease demand for our products, result in the loss of customers, lead to product withdrawals, and harm our ability to successfully launch new products and services. These problems could also result in enforcement actions by state and federal authorities or other healthcare self regulatory bodies, or product liability claims or lawsuits, including those brought by individuals or groups seeking to represent a class or establish multidistrict litigation proceedings. Any such action, litigation, recall or reputational harm resulting from patient harm or death caused by CSPs prepared by a competitor or a hospital pharmacy could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our current or future insurance coverage may prove insufficient to cover any liability claims brought against us. Because of the increasing cost of insurance coverage, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. We may not realize the expected benefits from our reorganization and other business process initiatives. In June 2017 we announced a new organizational structure, described in the Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in I, Item 7 below, designed to further align the organization to its customer needs in a more seamless and unified way, while supporting corporate strategy, accelerating growth, and improving efficiency. There can be no assurance that we will realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits of these changes. Our financial goals assume a level of productivity improvement from our business optimization initiatives. Our ability to successfully manage and execute these initiatives and realize expected savings and benefits is important to our business success. The reorganization and other initiatives could yield unintended consequences such as distraction of our management and employees, business disruption, attrition, inability to attract or retain key personnel, and reduced employee productivity which could negatively affect our business, sales, financial condition, and results of operations. Moreover, our restructuring and business process initiatives may result in charges and expenses that impact our operating results. There can be no assurance that the activities under any restructuring and business initiative will result in the desired benefits. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we undertake acquisitions of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate. As part of our strategy we seek to pursue acquisitions of other companies. At any particular time, we may be in various stages of assessment, discussion, and negotiation with regard to 1 or more potential acquisitions, not all of which will be consummated. We make public disclosure of pending and completed acquisitions when appropriate and required by applicable securities laws and regulations. Acquisitions involve numerous risks and uncertainties and may be of businesses in which we lack operational experience. If we complete 1 or more acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including regulatory or compliance issues that could arise; changes in regulations and laws; the failure of the acquired businesses to achieve the results we have projected in either the near or long term; the assumption of unknown liabilities, including litigation risks; the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed not being properly estimated; the difficulties of imposing adequate financial and operating controls on the acquired companies and their management and the potential liabilities that might arise pending the imposition of adequate controls; the difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies; and the failure to achieve the strategic objectives of these acquisitions. Violations of anti bribery, anti corruption and or international trade laws to which we are subject could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations. We are subject to laws concerning our business operations and marketing activities in foreign countries where we conduct business. For example, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the FCPA ), U.S. export control and trade sanction laws, and similar anti corruption and international trade laws in certain foreign countries, such as the U.K. Bribery Act, any violation of which could create substantial liability for us and also cause a loss of reputation in the market. The FCPA generally prohibits U.S. companies and their officers, directors, employees, and intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. The FCPA also requires that U.S. public companies maintain books and records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. If we are found to have violated the FCPA, we may face sanctions including civil and criminal fines, disgorgement of profits, and suspension or debarment of our ability to contract with government agencies or receive export licenses. From time to time, we may face audits or investigations by 1 or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to our international business activities, compliance with which could be costly and time consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. An adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our results of operations and our financial condition may be adversely affected by our global operations. Our operations in jurisdictions outside of the United States are subject to various risks inherent in global operations. We currently have operations in over 50 countries worldwide. We may conduct business in additional foreign jurisdictions in the future, which may carry operational risks in addition to the risks of acquisition described above. At any particular time, our global operations may be affected by local changes in laws, regulations, and the political and economic environments, including inflation, recession, currency volatility, and competition. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations. Declining economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations and performance depend on economic conditions in the United States and other countries where we do business. Deterioration in general economic conditions could adversely affect the amount of prescriptions that are filled and the amount of pharmaceutical products purchased by consumers and, therefore, could reduce purchases by our customers, which would negatively affect our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our profitability. Negative trends in the general economy, including interest rate fluctuations, financial market volatility or credit market disruptions, may also affect our customers' ability to obtain credit to finance their businesses on acceptable terms and reduce discretionary spending on health products. Reduced purchases by our customers or changes in payment terms could adversely affect our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our cash flow from operations. Bankruptcies or similar events affecting our customers may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels higher than historically experienced. Declining economic conditions may also increase our costs. If the economic conditions in the United States or in the countries where we do business do not improve or deteriorate, our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. Our stock price and our ability to access credit markets may be adversely affected by financial market volatility and disruption. If the capital and credit markets experience significant disruption and volatility in the future, there can be no assurance that we will not experience downward movement in our stock price without regard to our financial condition or results of operations or an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access credit. Although we believe that our operating cash flow and existing credit arrangements give us the ability to meet our financing needs, there can be no assurance that disruption and volatility will not increase our costs of borrowing, impair our liquidity, or adversely impact our business. Our revenue and results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency, or other credit failure of a significant customer. Most of our customers buy pharmaceuticals and other products and services from us on credit. Credit is made available to customers based upon our assessment and analysis of credi2rthiness. Although we often try to obtain a security interest in assets and other arrangements intended to protect our credit exposure, we generally are either subordinated to the position of the primary lenders to our customers or substantially unsecured. Volatility of the capital and credit markets, general economic conditions, and regulatory changes, including changes in reimbursement, may adversely affect the solvency or credi2rthiness of our customers. The bankruptcy, insolvency, or other credit failure of any customer that has a substantial amount owed to us could have a material adverse effect on our operating revenue and results of operations. As of September 30, 2017 , our 2 largest trade receivable balances due from customers represented approximately 49% and 9% of accounts receivable, net. Our results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of a significant supplier. Our relationships with pharmaceutical suppliers, including generic pharmaceutical manufacturers, give rise to substantial amounts that are due to us from the suppliers, including amounts owed to us for returned goods or defective goods, chargebacks, and amounts due to us for services provided to the suppliers. Volatility of the capital and credit markets, general economic conditions, and regulatory changes may adversely affect the solvency or credi2rthiness of our suppliers. The bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of any supplier at a time when the supplier has a substantial account payable balance due to us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Risks generally associated with our sophisticated information systems may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our businesses rely on sophisticated information systems to obtain, rapidly process, analyze, and manage data to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory Item from numerous distribution centers; to receive, process, and ship orders on a timely basis; to account for other product and service transactions with customers; to manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; and to process payments to suppliers. Certain of our businesses continue to make substantial investments in information systems, including, but not limited to, the new patient support technology ecosystem, Fusion, at ABCS's services business and the implementation of a new ERP system at World Courier, and third party service providers are also responsible for managing a significant portion of our information systems. To the extent our information systems are not successfully implemented or fail, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our business and results of operations may also be adversely affected if a third party service provider does not perform satisfactorily, or if the information systems are interrupted or damaged by unforeseen events, including due to the actions of third parties. Information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber attacks. A failure in or breach of our operational or information security systems, or those of our third party service providers, as a result of cyber attacks or information security breaches could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information or personal data, damage our reputation, increase our costs and or cause losses. As a result, cyber security and the continued development and enhancement of the controls and processes designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and ne2rks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. Although we believe that we have robust information security procedures and other safeguards in place, as cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Risks generally associated with data privacy regulation and the international transfer of personal data. We are required to comply with increasingly complex and changing data privacy regulations both in the United States and beyond that regulate the collection, use and transfer of personal data, including particularly the transfer of personal data between or among countries. Many of these foreign data privacy regulations (including the General Data Protection Regulation, which becomes effective in the European Union on May 25, 2018) are more stringent than those in the United States. We may also face audits or investigations by 1 or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to our compliance with these regulations. An adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or other penalties. That or other circumstances related to our collection, use and transfer of personal data could cause a loss of reputation in the market and or adversely affect our business and financial position. Our goodwill or intangible assets may become impaired, which would require us to record a significant charge to earnings in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") require us to test our goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if indicators for potential impairment exist. Indicators that are considered include significant changes in performance relative to expected operating results, significant negative industry or economic trends or a significant decline in our stock price and or market capitalization for a sustained period of time. In addition, we periodically review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable include slower growth rates, the loss of a significant customer, or divestiture of a business or asset for below its carrying value. The testing required by GAAP involves estimates and judgments by management. Although we believe our assumptions and estimates are reasonable and appropriate, any changes in key assumptions, including a failure to meet business plans or other unanticipated events and circumstances such as a rise in interest rates, may affect the accuracy or validity of such estimates. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets is determined. Any such charge could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Natural disasters or other unexpected events may disrupt our operations, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and may not be covered by insurance. The occurrence of 1 or more unexpected events, including fires, tornadoes, tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, and other forms of severe hazards in the United States or in other countries in which we operate or are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Extreme weather, natural disasters, power outages or other unexpected events could result in physical damage to and complete or partial closure of 1 or more of distribution centers or outsourcing facilities, temporary or long term disruption in the supply of products, delay in the delivery of products to our distribution centers, and or 16 Table of Contents disruption of our ability to deliver products to customers. Further, the long term effects of climate change on general economic conditions and the pharmaceutical distribution industry in particular are unclear, and changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy and the regulatory and other costs associated with energy production and delivery may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our businesses. Existing insurance arrangements may not provide protection for the costs that may arise from such events, particularly if such events are catastrophic in nature or occur in combination. Any long term disruption in our ability to service our customers from 1 or more distribution centers or outsourcing facilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS N1 ITEM 2 ITEM 2 PROPERTIES
